I am Marco Polo. Born in 1254
in Venice, current-day Italy.
I am known as a Venetian traveler and writer who
was one of the first westerners to visit China.
I am from a wealthy and cosmopolitan
Venetian merchant family.
My father and uncle were jewel merchants. In
1260, they left Venice to travel to the Black Sea,
moving onwards to central Asia and joining a
diplomatic mission to the court of Kublai Khan,
the Mongol ruler of China. Khan asked my father
and uncle to return to Europe and persuade the
pope to send scholars to explain Christianity
to him. They arrived back in Venice in 1269.
In 1271, they set off again,
accompanied by two missionaries and me,
and in 1275 reached Khan's summer court. For the
next 17 years, we lived in the emperor's lands.
I was popular with the Mongol ruler and was sent
on various diplomatic missions which gave me
the opportunity to see many parts of China.
Around 1292, our family offered to accompany
a Mongol princess who was to become the consort
of Arghun Khan in Persia. The party sailed from
a southern Chinese port in southern India and the
Persian Gulf. After leaving the princess in Iran,
we traveled overland to Constantinople and
then to Venice, arriving home in 1295.
I became involved in a naval conflict
between Venice and Genoa and in 1298 was
captured by the Genoese. In prison, my stories
attracted the attention of a writer from Pisa,
Rustichello, who began to write them down,
frequently embellishing them as I went.
The resulting book was extremely popular
and was translated into many languages
under several titles, including 'The
Million' and the 'Travels of Marco Polo'.
After I was released from prison, I
returned to Venice and died in 1324.
The world is filled with wonders. I did not tell
half of what I saw, for I knew I would not be
believed. But I hope the few stories I shared can
spark many people's interest to travel and see the
true world beyond the walls of their cities.